every living organism on planet earth is
meant for four nucleotides and 20
standard amino acids and yet these have
been able to form four billion unique
species this is the diversity of life
vampire bats vampire bats are unique in
two ways not only are they bats the only
mammals capable of flight but they are
also the only mammals that survive on a
strict diet of blood this trait is known
as photography or a Sangha Voris diet
that's further evolution there are three
species of monophyletic vampire bats
they share so many similarities that the
blood diet is thought to have evolved
only once from a common ancestor in the
american leaf-nosed bats all three
species of vampire bats are found in
Central and South America specifically
Mexico Brazil Argentina and Chile they
do not despite the myth live in
Transylvania myth probably comes from
Bram Stoker's novel Dracula with Dracula
the Transylvanian vampire was able to
transform into a bat if you want to see
these bats up close you can tour the
tamanna bat cave on the island of
Trinidad like most bats they're
nocturnal and prefer to sleep upside
down on cave ceilings vampire bats
contain specialized heat centres on its
nose necessary to locate the most
efficient spot on an animal to drink
from they will have special saliva which
contain a natural anticoagulant useful
for feeding and it could also be used in
the future for humans to help prevent
heart attacks
vampires bats front teeth the canines
and incisors are razor sharp and can
pierce skin practically painlessly but
it can also cause infectious disease
this isn't exactly sucking blood it's
more like lapping it up which they do
for half an hour while the animal
remains asleep
National Geographic reports that in one
year a 100 bat colony can drink the
blood of 25 cows this group feeding
allows for reciprocal altruism the
better fed bats will regurgitate blood
as disgusting as that sounds
the hungrier bats this creates strong
family ties which results in another
unique characteristic vampire bats are
the only bats that are willing to adopt
orphan bats unfortunately while cows
horses and pigs are their natural
targets they have also been reported
feasting on human blood and if that
isn't scary enough vampire bats have
evolved the unique ability to run on
land flinging their thumb-sized body up
to five miles per hour with their four
limbs the bats that have been shown are
the common vampire bats also known as
dis modus rotundus the other two are
distinct in that they feed mostly on
bird blood the white winged vampire bat
diamas young guy while not as proficient
at ground travel as a common vampire bat
has an easier time climbing branches if
you ever see these species notice the
white wingtips be careful though because
they have found to carry rabies they can
also emit a squirt of liquid leaving a
skunk like odor the hairy-legged vampire
bat de Phila
ek Dada is more of a loner that is more
willing to spend time alone than in
groups
counter-intuitively these bats have
excellent vision but poorly developed at
the location they can see juicy cattle
over a football field away in addition
to these species there are also a number
of false vampire bats the largest
carnivorous bat in the world is known as
the spectral bats even though it has a
wingspan of three feet it can still be
pretty stealthy it will either pounce on
prey from a high branch or from its
patrol along forest edges along with the
ghost bat it will produce only one pump
per year an interesting thing to note
that the villain goth of the Silver Wing
series has been stated to be a spectral
dance the family known as false vampire
bats
Megan term oddity there are four that
stand out the ghost bats as I've
mentioned before macro derma gas so
named because of a thin membrane of its
wings makes it appear spooky and
ghost-like especially at night they
reside in Australia and there are the
only carnivorous bat species there the
larger years are used for long-range
echolocation and
sharp teeth are used to eat frogs and
other small animals after the ghost bat
kills its prey with a powerful bite it
flies back to eat at a feeding perch
there is also a pair of lesser and
greater false Empire bats
although mega dermis Basma looks similar
it is in fact an insectivore the mega
derma Lehrer has a relatively larger
body size and needs more than just
insects going after small mammals and
reptiles as well
neither of these species have tails the
last notable mega determinate a bats the
yellowing bat lives in forests and Kenya
finally there is the woolly false
vampire bat these bats are second to the
spectro bat to being the largest nervous
species of bat because of this they fly
unusually slow and close to the ground
to maintain their weight they will eat a
very diet of fruits small mammals
insects and even other bats
that's it for this video but there are
plenty of other bat species to be
examined and the culture surrounding
them to be explored